We build varmail using React for our front-end development and Firebase for our backend development.

We implemented user auth and sign in with Firebase by taking what the using wrote and sending it to Firebase through their auth method. What happens during this time is that Firebase will create a unique 16 letter key for each person that signs up or check the unique code and password when someone signs in. After that, as the users adds organizations, messages, text, etc, these values are held under the uid key of the person so that each person can create their own unique organizations, messages, text, etc. 

Some pages, when loaded, take in a URL prop, which is used to fetch personalized content for them. Essentially, this is done anytime a user is creating/viewing some unique key, e.g., a new survey. So, you'll notice while you're on the create survey page that there are URL props passed into that page for example. Many other pages have similiar functions. 

Initially, we planned to create a survey based emailing application but decided to only allow the organizer to send emails because we did not want to abuse anyone's personal information. So, now in our application, users can send emails via emailJS, a package we used to help us actually send the contents of our email via gmail. We chose to send our emails via gmail because we felt gmail was the most trustworthy source for emailing. So when users email their recipients, their recipients recieve an email with some personalized information, which is possible through the emailJS package. 

Finally, Firebase allows us to store all of the data a user has so that next time the user logs in, they can see their data. We pull this data through a series of ways, depending on the scenario. For example, when we need to get all the message titles for the emailing page, we use loop through the values within the RTDB to display their data. For other pages, we may not need a loop because it may be some static piece of data, e.g., email on the homepage.
